Create Hardware Buy Back Policy.md (#573)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/IT/hardware-buy-back-policy.md

# Hardware Buy Back Policy

> Staff members have the option to buy back their existing hardware (laptop, desktop, phone, tablet etc.) either when it gets refreshed for a new one (which is on average, 3 years from purchase date, not necessarily 3 years of employment), or when the staff member is offboarding. If the staff member has completed 1 calendar year or more at Mattermost at the time of offboarding, they can opt to keep their device at no cost. If the staff member hasn't completed 1 calendar year at the time of offboarding or is receiving an early hardware refresh, they have the option to purchase their hardware for current market value from Mattermost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Staff members have the option to buy back their existing hardware (laptop, desktop, phone, tablet etc.) either when it gets refreshed for a new one (on average three years from purchase date, not necessarily after three years of employment), or when the staff member is offboarding. 

If the staff member has completed one calendar year or more at Mattermost at the time of offboarding, they can opt to keep their device at no cost. If the staff member hasn't completed one calendar year at the time of offboarding or is receiving an early hardware refresh, they have the option to purchase their hardware from Mattermost at current market value.
```

> If the hardware requires a buyout, IT will send the staff member an email with the determined value. Then if the employee decides to move forward with the purchase, our accounting department will reach out with payment information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the hardware requires a buyout, IT will send the staff member an email with the determined value. Then if the employee decides to move forward with the purchase, the accounting department will reach out with payment information.
```

> If a staff member decides to retain their hardware, they are required to wipe the device, re-install the base operating system, and remove any and all software and configurations that were supplied by Mattermost. You will be required to sign a document acknowledging that you have not taken or retained any confidential Mattermost software or data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a staff member decides to retain their hardware, they are required to wipe the device, re-install the base operating system, and remove any and all software and configurations that were supplied by Mattermost. 

They'll be required to sign a document acknowledging that they have not taken or retained any confidential Mattermost software or data.
```

> ## Required steps to keep device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Requirements for keeping a device
```

# Hardware Buy Back Policy

Staff members have the option to buy back their existing hardware (laptop, desktop, phone, tablet etc.) either when it gets refreshed for a new one (which is on average, 3 years from purchase date - not necessarily 3 years of employment), or when the staff member is offboarding. 

> If the staff member has completed one calendar year or more at Mattermost at the time of offboarding, they can opt to keep their device at no cost. If the staff member hasn't completed one calendar year at the time of offboarding or is receiving an early hardware refresh, they have the option to purchase their hardware from Mattermost at current market value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the staff member has completed one calendar year or more at Mattermost at the time of offboarding, they can opt to keep their device at no cost. In some countries, this benefit is viewed as compensation. Any payroll or withholding taxes incurred will be paid by Mattermost on behalf of the staff member. If the staff member hasn't completed one calendar year at the time of offboarding or is receiving an early hardware refresh, they have the option to purchase their hardware from Mattermost at current market value.
```

> If the staff member has completed one calendar year or more at Mattermost at the time of offboarding, they can opt to keep their device at no cost. If the staff member hasn't completed one calendar year at the time of offboarding or is receiving an early hardware refresh, they have the option to purchase their hardware from Mattermost at current market value.

Reviewer 3: @TQuock If staff members would like to know what that cost will be effectively, shall we say they can reach out to Finance? To IT?

Author: @DSchalla All questions regarding the buyback policy can be re-directed to me, I'd like to keep the main point of contact being IT for all incoming questions. I'll communicate via the private buy back policy channel (to be created) if there is any clarification needed from other teams (in this case Finance).

Reviewer 2: @danielsischy - will this run through Freshworks as a request as well or does will this be channel driven? Just wondering how Finance will ingest

Author: @TQuock Because this program may periodically require input from Security, Finance, IT, & HR, I believe this should be channel driven. I'll create tickets whenever hardware is granted to an employee, but that would mostly be for auditing purposes.

If the hardware requires a buyout, IT will send the staff member an email with the determined value. Then if the employee decides to move forward with the purchase, our accounting department will reach out with payment information.

> If a staff member decides to retain their hardware, they are required to wipe the device, re-install the base operating system, and remove any and all software and configurations that were supplied by Mattermost. You will be required to sign a document acknowledging you they have not taken or retained any confidential Mattermost software or data.

Reviewer 2: Will this be incorporated as part of the offboarding or should we include a link to the document for staff members to download and return?

Author: HR is providing the document via Docusign as a part of the offboarding process.

## Requirements for keeping a device

> 1. Perform system reset with data deletion:

Reviewer 2: should we make a note to the staff member that any and all personal information should be move to a cloud folder before doing the hardware reset? @danielsischy

Reviewer 3: Theoretically we forbid personal usage but I don't think it's a bad idea to make an extra note. Agreed.

Author: In my opinion since we forbid personal usage, wouldn't asking them to back up personal data be conflicting messaging?

Reviewer 2: I agree with. I did not know that that we forbid personal data use. There are few changes that need to be made to [How to Spend Company Money Policy](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/finance/staff-member-expenses/how-to-spend-company-money) if that is the case under the Mattermost Guidelines:

- 4 - we right now allow staff to use the company laptop for personal reasons. I'll need to update this, which may have push back. When was the policy implemented on personal usage and is there a place in the hanbook that I can reference? 

- 6 - we note that anything over $1,000 is company property. Still true, but I should include the buyback link in this section as well

@danielsischy @DSchalla

Author: @DSchalla I'll refer to your opinion here. I don't have any issues with employees using their laptops for personal use within reason as long as it's communicated and outlined as stated in Tim's 4th point. Do we have any security obligations that require us to state that personal use is forbidden? Or has it just been company policy to mitigate risk?

  * [Windows](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/how-to-refresh-reset-or-restore-your-pc-51391d9a-eb0a-84a7-69e4-c2c1fbceb8dd)
  * [macOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201065)
  * [iOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201252)
  * Linux - Delete Partition with ISO

> 2. Email IT@mattermost.com providing a picture from the device set up screen, the device serial number, and the type of device (desktop, tablet, phone, laptop, etc.)

Reviewer 2: Is step 2 to verify that step  1 was completed and the hardware was wiped?

Reviewer 3: That is correct, without an MDM we considered that the best option.
